[Workers] Auth0 tutorial revision (#2112)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: products/workers/src/content/tutorials/authorize-users-with-auth0/index.md

If you do not already have an Auth0 account, sign up for a free account at [auth0.com](https://www.auth0.com). This tutorial supports integration with Auth0’s free tier.

### Configure an Auth0 application

Every Auth0 account contains applications, which allow developers to create login/signup flows that are verified by Auth0. To integrate Auth0 with Workers, create an application in your Auth0 dashboard. If you have created an account for this tutorial, the **Default (Generic)** application provided by Auth0 will work; otherwise, create a new application with the type **Regular Web Application**.

![Creating an Auth0 application](./media/creating-an-application.png)

Inside of your application’s settings, the client ID and client secret are keys that you will provide to your Workers application to authenticate with Auth0. There are several settings and configuration options, but relevant to this tutorial are the **Allowed Callback URLs** and **Allowed Web Origins** options. In the [**Publish** section](/authorize-users-with-auth0#publish) of this tutorial, you will later fill in these values with the final deployed URL of our application.

## Generate a new project

> Using wrangler’s `generate` command, begin building a new application using a Workers template. For this tutorial, you will modify the default template for [Workers Sites](/platform/sites), which deploys a static HTML application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using wrangler’s `generate` command, begin building a new application using a Workers template. For this tutorial you will modify the default template for [Workers Sites](/platform/sites), which deploys a static HTML application:
```

## Building an authorizer

Before implementing an “authorizer" in your application, which will verify that a user is logged in, it is useful to understand how Auth0’s login flow works. The condensed version of this flow is below (you can also [review a longer writeup in Auth0’s docs](https://auth0.com/docs/flows/concepts/auth-code)):

1. A user makes a request to the Workers application.
2. If the user is not logged in, they are redirected to the login page.

> 3. After logging in, the user is redirected back to the Workers application, passing a login `code` as a query param.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. After logging in, the user is redirected back to the Workers application with a login `code` query parameter.
```

4. The Workers application takes the login `code` parameter and exchanges it with Auth0 for authorization tokens.

> In a traditional application that is attached to a database, the authorization tokens Auth0 returns are often persisted in a database. This will allow users to return to the application and continue to use it, without the need for re-authorization. With a Workers application, you have access to a quick and easy-to-use data storage solution that lives right next to your serverless application: Workers KV. Using Workers KV, you will store authorization tokens and tie them to a user using an authorization cookie.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a traditional application that is attached to a database, the authorization tokens Auth0 returns are often persisted in a database. This will allow users to return to the application and continue to use it without the need for re-authorization. With a Workers application, you have access to a quick and easy-to-use data storage solution that lives right next to your serverless application: Workers KV. Using Workers KV, you will store authorization tokens and tie them to a user using an authorization cookie.
```

}
```

The `auth0` object wraps several secrets, which are encrypted values that can be defined and used by your script. In the [**Publish** section](/authorize-users-with-auth0#publish) of this tutorial, you will define these secrets using the [`wrangler secret`](/cli-wrangler/commands#secret) command.

> The `generateStateParam` function will be used to prevent [Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks](https://auth0.com/docs/protocols/oauth2/mitigate-csrf-attacks). For now, you will return a string “stub”, but later in the tutorial, `generateStateParam` will generate a random “state” parameter that you will store in Workers KV to verify incoming authorization requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `generateStateParam` function will be used to prevent [Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks](https://auth0.com/docs/protocols/oauth2/mitigate-csrf-attacks). For now, you will return a string “stub” but later in the tutorial, `generateStateParam` will generate a random “state” parameter that you will store in Workers KV to verify incoming authorization requests.
```

}
```

> If a user is not authorized, redirect them to Auth0’s login page, by calling `Response.redirect`, passing in the `redirectUrl`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a user is not authorized, redirect them to Auth0’s login page by calling `Response.redirect` and passing in the `redirectUrl`:
```

}
```

> When a user logs in via Auth0’s login form, they will be redirected back to the callback URL specified by our application. In the next section, you will handle that redirect, and get a user access token as part of the "login" code flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a user logs in via Auth0’s login form, they will be redirected back to the callback URL specified by our application. In the next section, you will handle that redirect and get a user access token as part of the "login" code flow.
```

}
```

In your Workers Site, you can add a **Log out** link, which will send users to the `/logout` route, and clear their auth cookie via the `Set-cookie` header:

```html
<a href="/logout">Log out</a>
```

> <Aside type="note">

Reviewer 2: Does this need `header="Note:"`?

1. Visit your application (e.g., [my-auth-test.signalnerve.workers.dev](https://my-auth-test.signalnerve.workers.dev)), which should redirect you to Auth0’s login page.
2. Log in with an email/password or the social identity provider of your choice, if enabled.
3. Let Auth0 redirect you to `/auth`, and then to `/`. As this is happening, your Workers application has exchanged a login `code` with Auth0 for an access token, persisted it to Workers KV, and registered you as an authorized user via a cookie.
4. If you see your site, you have successfully authorized users to your Workers application, using Auth0.

![Example GIF](./media/example-vid.gif)

## Conclusion

By completing this tutorial, you have successfully built an application that authorizes and authenticates users on the edge using Cloudflare Workers. To see the final version of the project we built in this tutorial, refer to the example GitHub repository: [signalnerve/workers-auth0-example](https://github.com/signalnerve/workers-auth0-example/).

> There is a lot more that you can build with Workers, such as serving static and JAMstack-style apps using Workers Sites, or transforming HTML responses using HTMLRewriter. Below are some more tutorials for you to review and experiment with.

Reviewer 2: Maybe write around starting the sentence with "there" and say "You can build a lot more with Workers, such as..." ?

> There is a lot more that you can build with Workers, such as serving static and JAMstack-style apps using Workers Sites, or transforming HTML responses using HTMLRewriter. Below are some more tutorials for you to review and experiment with.

Author: ```suggestion
You can build a lot more with Workers, such as serving static and JAMstack-style apps using Workers Sites, or transforming HTML responses using HTMLRewriter. Below are some more tutorials for you to review and experiment with.
```

> There is a lot more that you can build with Workers, such as serving static and JAMstack-style apps using Workers Sites, or transforming HTML responses using HTMLRewriter. Below are some more tutorials for you to review and experiment with.

Author: ```suggestion
You can build a lot more with Workers, such as serving static and JAMstack-style apps using Workers Sites, or transforming HTML responses using HTMLRewriter. Below are some more tutorials for you to review and experiment with.
```
